---
title: Release Notes
description: 'cert-manager release notes: cert-manager v0.16'
---

The `v0.16` release has a few focus areas:

* Enable the new certificate controller for all users
* `kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest` for signing local certificates
* `v1beta1` API


As usual, please read the [upgrade notes](../installation/upgrading/upgrading-0.15-0.16.md) before upgrading.

## New certificate controller

The Certificate controller is one of the most commonly used controllers in the project.
It represents the 'full lifecycle' of an X.509 private key and certificate, including
private key management and renewal.

In `v0.15` we added the new certificate controllers under a feature gate to allow users to test these and gather feedback.
Thanks to everyone testing these and reporting issues we were able to fix issues and improve the controller.
In `v0.16` this controller is now the default one in cert-manager. 

For more information on this, we invite you to read our [design document](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/pull/2753).


## kubectl cert-manager tool for signing certificates

cert-manager `v0.15` included a kubectl plugin that allows users to interact with cert-manager.
In this release we have added a new sub-command to the cert-manager CLI which allows users to sign certificates on their computer
or inside a container.

The `kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest` command creates a new CertificateRequest 
resource based on the YAML manifest of a Certificate resource as specified by `--from-certificate-file` flag.
 
For example this will create a CertificateRequest resource with the name "my-cr" based on the Certificate described in `my-certificate.yaml` while storing the
private key and X.509 certificate in `my-cr.key` and `my-cr.crt` respectively.
```console
$ kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest my-cr --from-certificate-file my-certificate.yaml --fetch-certificate --timeout 20m
```

More information can be found on our [kubectl plugin page](../usage/kubectl-plugin.md).

## `v1beta1` API

We are soon reaching cert-manager `v1.0` and the new `v1beta1` API is our first step towards a stable `v1` API.
The biggest change users may notice is the improved API documentation. We took the time to review and update all the user-facing APIs. You can view the [updated API documentation online](../reference/api-docs.md), or use `kubectl explain` after installing this version of cert-manager.
`v1beta1` does not contain many big changes, this version is focused on streamlining field names and general clean up of the API in preparation for the release of the `v1` release.

These are the changes made (for reference, our conversion will take care of everything for you):

Certificate:

* `keyAlgorithm` is now named `algorithm` under the `privateKey` property
* `keyEncoding` is now named `encoding` under the `privateKey` property
* `keySize` is now named `size` under the `privateKey` property
* Encoding values `PKCS1` and `PKCS8` are now uppercase

CertificateRequest:

* The field `csr` is now `request`

Issuer:

* DNS01 providers with DNS in their name now are uppercase `DNS`, these are: `cloudDNS` `azureDNS` and `acmeDNS`

ACME Order:

* The field `csr` is now `request`

ACME Challenge:

* The field `authzURL` is now `authorizationURL`
* Challenge types `HTTP-01` and `DNS-01` are now all uppercase
* Unsupported challenge types (`TLS-ALPN-01`, `TLS-SNI-01`, `TLS-SNI-02` and others) are not generated by cert-manager any longer

If you're using Kubernetes 1.15 or higher, conversion webhooks will allow you seamlessly interact with `v1alpha2`, `v1alpha3` and `v1beta1`
API versions at the same time. This allows you to use the new API version without having to modify or redeploy your older resources.
Users of the `legacy` version of cert-manager will still only have the `v1alpha2` API. 

### `kubectl cert-manager convert` tool

To assist you updating your manifest files on disk (for example in your infrastructure Git repo) we offer `v1beta1` support in `kubectl cert-manager`.
The `kubectl cert-manager convert` command will be able to convert your manifest files to `v1beta1` using:

```console
$ kubectl cert-manager convert --output-version cert-manager.io/v1beta1 cert.yaml
```

More information can be found on our [kubectl plugin page](../usage/kubectl-plugin.md).